The photo is my creative way.
The photo is my means for speaking,
to create,
to express what I deeply feel.
Is that I express with colors,
shapes,
materials.
I express it, so others have the pleasure to understand what I do.
What I want to pass as idea, as intention,
it is to let know and make realize to the spectator,
that there is an evolution in the paint and the plastic arts.
That, now, we have new technologies at our disposal.
That photography must be considered as a  plastic art with its own technologies,
such as painting art.
Martine Anciaux has mastered a new grammar of shapes and colors.
She takes us into a different universe,
where the photography gets married with the painting.
Geometric shapes,
aspects of landscape,
abstraction ...
Martine Anciaux was able to bring us a new way of seeing.
My research was based at beginning on a realistic photography,
and I started  to think that it was possible to go further, towards abstraction.
Towards a "photographic abstract paint"
It was the purpose, the way, of my years of research,
that I have now reached.
For me the photography must go further to "transmigrate" towards the  paint,
even more "transgress" the paint,
to have its own status and its own originality.
So that the gallery owners,
the museum world,
can recognize this new photographic art.
A new art in the 21st century.
A new method of photographing,
but also a new method of painting.
This is the "photo-paint" of Martine Anciaux...
A marriage of our century,
which also allows the technology and aesthetics in intersection.
Martine Anciaux, offers in this way a new working model,
which allows to combine paint and photography
in a dimension of osmosis.
Also, sometimes,
Martine Anciaux, presents his work on a easel painting,
to accentuate this dimension of his universe ...
I am a "painter-photographer".
I handle the color.
I handle the forms.
The art of photo actually allows me to paint
my photographs with digital tools,
no problem, as a painter uses his brushes.
I feel myself, as a painter.
I am a "painter-photographer",
a "photographer-painter" ...
This "photo-painting" is called "Wings".
I consider myself as a digital artist,
painter of  numerical.
We are in a new age.
We have possibilities to create "photographic-paintings"
or "photographs-paintings".
After several years of research,
Martine Anciaux has mastered a new grammar,
to apply a new logic in contemporary art.
From geometries to lyricism,
shapes and colors,
is a set of features and lines that Martine Anciaux
painted with numerical tools.
In the same way as the painter's brush can go on the canvas.
Martine Anciaux painted
with numerical medium new formulations of abstract landscapes ...
In the night she knows how to create lighting and lights.
Luminosities
which can sometimes go beyond the traditional palette of artists ...
Landscapes,
brightness, colorful waterfalls,
abstract lights
on all graphics and colors registers.
Martine Anciaux may also evolve in this modalities
to formulate abstract landscapes.
A pictorial camera lens,
exceptional  luminosities,
label the modernity of new messages and new signs.
My intention was with the photography to make a painting ...
When a spectator at present,
or a visitor
come to see my photos,
and says to me "What a beautiful painting !"
I think I succeeded in what I hoped to do.
Now this technique is a detailed technique.
Has for many years.
It was the purpose, the object of my research ...